2) Linux differs from other operating systems, in that it's philosophy isn't for those new to computers. The central Linux philosophy is that the user is assumed to possess computer knowledge. Therefore, it isn't designed to prevent you from doing stupid things. It's designed to do whatever you want it to, no matter the consequences. Everyone has maxiumum freedom and power. The Linux prime directive, is treat all users with respect, and give them the freedom to do what they want. 

3) A virtual private server is a virtual machine, sold to be an internet hosting service. VPS's are functionally, the same as a dedicated physical service, but performance may be lower, and is subject to other VPS's preset on the same hardware. Advantages of using a VPS include that you get complete access, and can install software without waiting for a host to support it. You get your own,  customizable, enviroment. You can also scale your server. If you don't need a gigantic server, you can scale it down to 512 MB of space. They are also cost effective for small websites, and can cost as little as $5 a month for the tiniest. They are in essence, now the same price as shared physical hosting accounts, but without the risk and performance issues. 

4) It's a bad idea to run programs on Linux as the root user, because the root user is God. Root user can change everything on the system, accidentally or not, delete, add, etc etc. And because Root can access everything, if someone were to gain knowledge of the Root log in info, they could have free reign on your system. Instead, it's best to create users for different tasks, and use Root only if necessary. For example, if you're running your system as Root user, and open a virus, then it has access to everything.